If you woke up in a maze of trapped cubes,
what would you do?
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow
the cube captives, see if we can make better
decisions, and ultimately attempt to beat
the DEATH MAZE in, Cube.
If you think you have a better way, let me
know in the comments!
If you like these how to beat videos, consider
subscribing.
Before we start, let me be clear.
I’m not good with math, and I am positive
I'm wrong about a lot of things I talk about.
Please correct me in the comments.
I know you will.
We start out following a man named Alderson,
who woke up in a sci-fi looking cube.
Imagine just going about your day, then waking
up in here.
You just know you’re not gonna have a good
time.
This ain’t an ordinary room, and nothing
about it seems hospitable in the slightest.
The first red flag is that he’s wearing
a prisoner’s uniform, but there’s no toilet,
bed, food, or water, so this is arguably worse
than a prison.
Even Goreng from The Platform got these amenities.
The good news is that it’s not a straight
up execution, or he’d already be dead.
I guess it could still be an execution, and
the Cube people just wanna have a little fun
with him first.
However, it’s most likely an experiment
or a gauntlet, in which case the only reasonable
thing to do is assume you can win your freedom
and become the Cube Warrior’s version of
a Rudiarius.
Alderson pops some doors open to see what’s
what.
When he opens the door to the blue room, there
is a weird sound.
But when he opens the red room, there isn’t
a sound.
And when he opens the orange room, the same
weird sound from the blue room plays.
What that means, I don’t know.
Unfortunately this looks like a trial and
error puzzle, and I don’t think you get
a second chance.
Well, that’s the end of this guy's story.
Brah didn’t even know what hit him.
You might feel sorry for this guy, but I think
he got off easy.
This was a fairly rudimentary trap for such
a sophisticated environment, which makes me
lean towards this being a game or gauntlet.
They have to have cameras somewhere streaming
to a Pay Per View audience.
Why would you waste perfectly good entertainment?
Unpopular opinion, they should bring back
gladiatorial type games, upgraded with modern
technology and engineering.
Supermarket Sweep just isn’t cutting it.
Somewhere else in the cube we have two other
survivors, Quentin and Worth.
Each person seems to wake up from a drugged
state in a different room.
The door next to them opens up and Quentin
judo throws the woman to the ground.
This nice lady’s name is Holloway.
In the background there’s a
loud noise, like something large and mechanical
is moving outside the room.
Another girl, Leaven, joins them, as well
as a man named Rennes.
The more the merrier considering someone has
to test out each room for traps.
Now would be a good time for everyone to compare
notes.
Quentin and Rennes already had experience
with traps before meeting up.
It’s likely they both have encountered different
types of traps, as well as the presence of
other non-trapped rooms.
It should be apparent that they’re in a
maze of cubes that doubles as a minefield,
and there should be a safe path around the
traps and out of the maze.
I initially thought they might be playing
some sort of 3 dimensional minesweeper, but
there’s nothing that indicates the number
of trap rooms they might be surrounded by.
These are the two problems they need to find
solutions for now.
1.
A trap detection method.
2.
Where an exit would be.
It’s best to solve the first problem before
moving on to the second.
Until you can safely navigate the cube, finding
an exit path is somewhat moot.
Detecting what rooms are trapped is difficult
because the traps are invisible until activated
by a human presence.
There’s two ways this can go down.
Either we are able to reliably, physically
detect and/or cross traps, which is unlikely,
or more likely there has to be a trap detection
method we haven’t discovered yet.
If there isn’t a way to reliably, physically
detect traps, it invalidates the player’s
decisions, which invalidates the cube’s
purpose as a game.
We already concluded that it’s most likely
a game, so in this case it means there has
to be another way to detect traps.
I’d gather as much information that they
can observe, which would amount to:
1.
Does anyone have any useful skills or knowledge
2.
Is noise or no noise when opening cube doors
correlated with traps
3.
Is the color of the room correlated with traps
4.
Are the room number plates in each cube correlated
with traps
5.
The background noise appearing at random intervals
6.
Or anything else that’s not identical room
to room.
Besides these variables, everything else is
identical and can’t be used.
Then I'd start manually testing all surrounding
rooms for traps and assessing for any correlations
of the above variables.
Like Rennes discovered, you can use your boot
to trigger a lot of traps.
Enough to find correlations.
But let me be clear, do not use physical trap
detection as a final determinate for a cube’s
safety.
Our cube captives also decide to manually
detect trap rooms, and with some initial success
they wrongly conclude that physically detecting
traps is 100% reliable.
While booting a room is fairly effective in
detecting many traps, it’s almost certainly
catastrophically wrong.
You only have to be wrong once, just ask Alderson.
The problem which they already know is that
there are a variety of traps that have a variety
of activation triggers.
A trap could detect a human based on motion,
sound, and pressure.
All things a boot could trigger.
But traps could also be triggered based on
thermals, chemicals, tripwires, and a host
of other things like thresholds, time-activation,
location-specificity, and any combinations
of these.
For example, a trap could be a spike that
gets instantly thrust up through your body,
but is only activated if you step on a certain
tile of the room, with 150lbs of pressure,
for a minimum of 10 second, and only when
a heat signature is present.
It would be impossible to test this trap unless
you physically walked into the trapped cube,
and by the time you knew a trap existed you
were dead.
If you have to move into another cube to further
test your trap detection method, in addition
to booting, I'd also try to test for thermals
and chemicals by giving the unknown cube a
nice slap from within the corridor.
If that works, have 1 person cross the entire
cube at a time while being ready to Dodge,
Duck, Dip, Dive and Dodge.
Our protagonists choose the logical, yet seemingly
too obvious strategy of going in a straight
line while detouring around trap rooms.
That same mechanical background noise starts
again, and Rennes remarks that it’s occurring
in regular intervals.
A piece to the puzzle, no doubt.
Maybe we are in a giant shuffling Rubik's
cube and the goal is to solve it, but there
isn’t a mechanism for shifting cubes, and
the shifting is happening at random intervals
completely outside of their control.
So that's a no Rubik’s cube theory.
Leaven and the crew just now discover that
there are serial numbers pointing to each
room.
How the hell did they miss this.
The rooms are practically identical except
for like 2 things.
The first number she reads is 566.472.737,
which is the room they are going into.
The second number she reads is 476.804.539,
which is the room they came from.
It’s not.
If these were room numbers, based on 566,472,737
rooms, and at a diameter of 14 feet per room
plus 1 feet of hatchways on either side, you’re
looking at a diameter of 2.5 miles and nearly
16 cubic miles of cubes.
The diameter of this monstrosity would be
like 12 aircraft carriers lined up end to
end.
I highly, highly doubt an organization built
1800 aircraft carriers worth of cubes for
7 people to wander around.
While we don’t know how big the cube is,
it has to be way smaller than they think.
Even if they were room numbers, they don’t
seem to be sequential, so unless they are
encoded somehow they are no use for finding
an exit.
And even if they were sequential, we still
don’t know where an exit might be.
So far, these numbers aren’t helping as
a trap detection method or for finding a way
out.
Which is concerning and odd.
From the six potential variables we’ve observed
none seem to be correlated with solutions.
The numbers stand out because they could be
some type of code.
They must be missing something.
The numbers have to mean something.
It’s possible they need more information
before they can figure out solutions.
Heading towards a side and traveling along
it while looking for exits would potentially
give them the dimensions of the main cube.
I’d also leave pieces of ripped clothing
as line markers to indicate if they have already
been in that cube, and that it’s not trapped
in case they need to backtrack.
Like we saw in my As above so below video,
these little guys can be the difference between
life and death.
This is a pretty interesting quirk.
There’s probably some benefit to relieving
a parched mouth in the face of dehydration,
but I doubt they need that right now as it’s
only been a few hours.
Rennes boots the next room and it looks clear
of traps, but he holds the group up anyways.
He says that the air is dry in there, and
that there may be a molecular sensor based
trap that detects hydrogen sulfide excreted
from skin.
I don’t know enough about biology to confirm
or deny this, but the internet does indicate
that humans do produce and excrete this chemical
in some manner.
It’s probably a good idea to avoid rooms
that present abnormalities and don’t conform
to the patterns associated with non-trapped
rooms.
Rennes reveals that he is a 7-time escapee
of French prisons.
It might seem like a good idea to follow a
prison escape artist's lead, but this isn’t
a prison.
If it was a prison, there wouldn’t be doors
and there would be traps on every side.
They are in a 3D maze that must have a path
out, they just need to cautiously unravel
the game's rules.
Great advice Houdini, I think we will stop
to think things through if that’s chill
with you.
You got something on your face by the way.
It’s now clear that physically testing traps
isn’t reliable, so trap detection must be
based on one of the aforementioned variables,
likely the numbering system.
Rennes should have slapped the interior of
the cube first before hopping in, it’s pretty
dumb for someone who supposedly knows a lot
about sensors to not account for thermal sensors.
His dodge game wasn’t on point either, instead
of diving out of the way he just stood there
and said merde.
The crew finally does what they should have
done a long ass time ago.
Share information.
We know Quentin is a cop, Rennes ‘was’
an escape artist, we don’t know anything
about Alderson other than he was one unlucky
SOB, but what about the others.
Okay, that’s not helpful at all.
We need specific details.
That’s better, but still too vague.
Can everyone stop being intentionally opaque,
good god.
Nobody cares about your
Edgar Allan Poe bullshit, just give a straight
answer.
We are on the clock in a life and death situation
here.
Quentin uses his X-Ray detective skills..
..
of the survivors to discover that Leaven is
a math student.
It really shouldn’t have been that hard
to figure out, but everyone felt like wasting
time being ambiguous for no reason.
Leaven uses her special math powers to assess
the mysterious room numbers and determines
that the trapped rooms they had encountered
all had 3 sequences of 3 digit prime numbers.
For everyone that ignored everything taught
in math class like me, prime numbers are numbers
that have only 2 factors: 1 and themselves.
None of these number sequences are prime,
so the room is theoretically safe.
Right, but like Quentin is trying to say,
that’s only 3 data points which is a low
enough sample size to be coincidence.
If half the rooms were traps, they can only
really be 87.5% confident in this method.
Sounds like a lot, but it’s really not.
This whole time I've been speculating that
the numbers mean something, and I think what
she’s onto is worth testing, but you will
only know if the theory holds up with a high
degree of confidence once you’ve tested
at least 10 rooms.
Even then, the cost of physically checking
a room too is low, so you might as well sniff,
slap, and boot every room anyways.
The montage of them navigating rooms seems
pretty convincing that prime numbers are the
key to detecting traps.
So they seemed to have solved the trap detection
problem, but they still haven’t solved the
exit path problem.
Since there really isn’t anything else that
they can use to determine an exit path, and
the numbers were a form of key to half their
problem, it’s likely the numbers are also
a key to the other half of their problem.
It’s a good thing Rennes got faceshotted
instead of Leaven because there is no way
they would have figured that out by themselves.
On that note, they need to keep Leaven alive
at all costs because she’s probably their
only chance of figuring out a way out of here.
They should continue heading towards a side
of the cube so they can map out the potential
dimensions of the main cube.
Eventually they hit a dead end with traps
on all sides and are forced to backtrack.
By now they’re probably getting claustrophobic,
dehydrated, and a bit delirious.
This is where line markers would be nice to
have, it would lower the mental burden of
doing math and double checking each room you
may have already been in.
Their detour around the dead end is put on
pause when they hear some noises coming from
the cube above them.
Quentin pops the door and another person falls
through.
His name is Kazan and he appears to have some
type of mental disorder.
On a side note it’s interesting how all
of the captives are named and characterized
after famous prisons around the world.
Kazan has a mental condition of sorts, which
relates to the Kazan Prison Mental Hospital
in Russia.
Quentin is a male and San Quentin is a prison
for males.
Holloway is a female and Holloway Prison is
female-only.
Rennes, Rennes Prison.
Leaven and Worth, Leavenworth.
Also interesting that these two share a prison
name.
I don’t think any of this helps them though.
The captives continue their straight line
path to the side of the cube while checking
for prime number based trap rooms.
But this time, there’s a problem.
This is exactly why I kept saying to tread
carefully.
To think that prime numbers solved everything
was foolish, even with it being a pretty successful
strategy.
Luckily for Quentin, this trap gave him time
to dive out of the way.
The prime number trap detection theory is
far from worthless, because there is obviously
a significant correlation.
It’s likely that there is just some caveat
or additional piece to it.
Under investigation from Quentin, Worth reveals
that he’s an engineer that was contracted
to build the shell of this cube, or sarcophagus
as he pessimistically puts it.
He claims he knows nothing of the interior
except that the shell does not sit flush against
the cube of cubes.
Worth, you piece of shit.
I knew that woe is me garbage was a projection
of guilt or a diversion from his actual profession
and affiliations.
When questioned about who was in charge, why
the cube was built, and what it’s purpose
is, he goes on a nihilistic tirade that it
was just built because we could, and that
nobody was in charge and it was just a headless
blunder operating under the illusion of a
master plan.
Uh, okay.
You just admitted that you were a victim of
compartmentalization and now you’re claiming
to know all about the cube.
I’m not buying it.
There’s no point in being hopeless anyways.
Now knowing Worth has knowledge of the exterior,
Leaven jumps in and questions him further.
Worth reveals that the cube is 434 feet squared,
and that there most likely is 1 cube worth
of space between the shell and the main cube,
and that there is a door on one side of the
shell, but he doesn’t know which side it’s
on.
Wow, that was super important information
we definitely could have used earlier.
Leaven measures the interior of the cube to
be 14 feet in diameter, and deduces that 27x27
cubes would fit flush with the shell, so 26x26
cubes would be accurate according to Worth’s
statement.
But 434 divided by 14 equals 31 rooms flush
and 30 rooms with space.
According to Leavens calculations of 27 rooms
flush, 26 with space, that would mean each
cube is 16 feet and some change.
She’s probably assuming 1 foot of hatchway
on either side plus some siding which makes
the difference.
This means there are 17576 rooms total.
To put it in perspective, the cube is just
a little bit smaller than NASA's Vehicle Assembly
Building.
It’s big, but definitely not 2000 aircraft
carriers worth.
Leaven has another epiphany, that the numbers
are not just correlated to whether or not
the rooms are trapped, but that they might
be coded cartesian coordinates, which are
grid coordinates for a 3 dimensional space.
If you’re wondering, she yells Descartes
because cartesian coordinates were named after
him.
She thinks that if you add up the numbers
in each 3 digit sequence, it will provide
an x,y,z coordinate.
The decoding seems arbitrary and unlikely
to be discovered, but for someone with a math
eye..
It’s still pretty arbitrary and unlikely
to be discovered.
I guess knowing that the maximum size of the
shell is 27x27x27 and that the number layout
coupled with the maximum number sequence could
be 999,999,999 might lead her to add up the
9’s to get 27x27x27.
This also works because so far, they have
not come across negative or zero room numbers.
A negative number would enable the cube to
be bigger than 27 cubes per side.
This indicates that the smallest room number
would be 001,001,001, or x,y, and z all equal
1.
The cartesian coordinate scheme seems to work
with everything else they know but there are
some things that are odd.
Worth mentioned that the shell has a door,
and that there is 1 cube worth of space between
the main cube and shell.
According to this cartesian coordinate scheme,
a cube could fill that gap.
But if a cube could fill that gap, why is
it empty space according to Worth?
Also, the room numbers are obviously not cartesian
coordinates of their current location.
Every room around them and that they’ve
passed through have seemingly random coordinates.
If you go in one direction on the x-axis,
you should expect that the numbers will increase
or decrease, but they don’t.
Does this mean the cartesian coordinate theory
is busted, no.
Like the prime number theory, it’s most
likely a bit more involved.
I think right now it’s probably a bit of
a stretch, but definitely within the possibility
for Leaven and Worth to determine that the
logic gap between improperly located cartesian
coordinates, the theoretical ability for a
cube to be located between the shell and the
main cube, and the sound and tremors, is that
the cubes might be moving and their might
be a cube between the shell and the main cube
which could be an exit.
Leaven misses all this and decodes their rooms
coordinates to x=19, y=26 and doesn’t bother
with the z axis.
She then announces that they are only 7 rooms
from the side.
If you thought these numbers were the cartesian
coordinates of this room’s current location,
wouldn’t it be common sense to go up.
You don’t know which side is the x or z
axis, and you don’t know if you are going
forward or reverse.
You do know up from down and right now you
think you’re 26 from 27 total cubes.
You should be at the edge or outside of the
main cube.
Just go up.
Pretty stupid.
Regardless of where they actually are in the
cube, going topside will enable them to confirm
the size of the cube, shell, space between
the cube and the shell, confirm if any cubes
are between the cube and the shell, and give
them a view of 5 out of the 6 sides of the
cube to identify an exit location.
Logically, it makes sense that an exit would
not be on the bottom, because if one shell
is 16 feet tall, and that’s the height of
the gap between the cube and the shell, you
could drop down to the exit easily with a
clothing rope.
Logically, they would put the exit in the
most difficult location, which is the roof.
Traps are still a problem, but if it’s not
prime they can sniff, slap, and boot the room
to cut the risk substantially.
Eventually Leaven figures out these issues
when the next room has non-sequential coordinates
of 14,27,14.
This is an incredible piece to the puzzle
though.
Before we could only speculate that a cube
could be outside the main cube, but this room
is proof that a room could have cartesian
coordinates outside the shell.
Knowing the door is at the shell, and the
cube would act as a bridge to it should be
pretty obvious by this point.
Still, what’s it doing here, obviously this
isn’t the top of the cube.
The largest discrepancy they need to resolve
right now is why cartesian coordinates haven’t
matched up with a cubes actual location, because
right now they have no idea where they actually
are in the cube.
After that, figure out why the trap detection
method worked then stopped working.
Leaven has been finding abstract patterns
in the numbers left and right so far, I'm
sure something will hit her.
The crew disregards the top of the cube as
having any merits, and decides to go downwards?
Holloway mentions that the edge seems to be
surrounded by traps.
Quentin agrees and thinks they should cross
it anyways.
They seem to think that every cube 1 from
the edge is trapped, but how could they possibly
know this if they have no idea where they
are.
Going downwards is dumb anyways.
With patience and wits running thin, they
decide to sneak across this cube’s sound
activated shish kebab trap.
Problem is, Kazan’s tourette syndrome could
cause the trap to activate once they are inside
the cube.
Personally, I'd put him in a previous room
and gag him with a t-shirt.
Once everyone’s through, Holloway can then
bring Kazan across too.
You better have good proprioception, if you
accidentally knee-knock the wall you’ll
get run through seven ways to sunday.
Leaven and Holloway both sneak through at
the same time, and Worth hops back in to help
them.
It’s really unnecessary and risky to have
so many people inside the cube at a time.
Poor Kazan goes the wrong way, gets caught
on the door handle, and almost shrieks before
Holloway jumps back and helps him out.
Yah Kazan messed up and almost got you killed,
but why on Earth did you stop when you got
to the corridor.
You should have just jumped in the hatch immediately.
Holloway stops Quentin from beating the hell
out of Kazan for almost getting him killed,
and a fight ensues between them.
The fact that they are right next to the outside
of the cube diverts their attention.
They open the door and, well, Worth was right.
There’s a shell 1 cube from the main cube.
It’s pretty dark, so they decide to fashion
a shirt rope to swing Holloway over and see
if there’s anything out there since she’s
the lightest and they can’t risk Leaven’s
life.
What I don’t understand is why they all
support Holloway like they are playing tug
of war.
You could easily tie the clothing rope off
on any number of things in the cube while
still holding on and bracing yourselves against
the hatchway entrance.
This would remove the risk of you guys dropping
her and give Holloway more slack.
Holloway tries to swing to the shell which
puts a lot of strain on the others, but I
can’t really see why she tried this.
She can clearly see that it’s just a solid
wall.
If there’s a door, it’s probably not on
this side like Worth said.
Whatever was making the noise at each interval
occurs again, causing a tremor that magically
makes everyone release their grasp of the
rope.
Quentin is the only one that dives for the
rope to save Holloway from falling to death.
Wow, that was cold as shit Quentin.
Yah they had an argument earlier, but damn.
I saw some people saying that Holloway should
have yelled something like, “He’s going
to drop me on purpose, please stop him from
murdering me.”, but I doubt she could have
gotten a word out before he dropped her.
Quentin stupidly dropped the shirt rope too,
it’s not like that could be helpful on their
journey.
Worth and Leaven are suspicious, but they
don’t know for a fact he killed Holloway.
Everyone’s pretty distraught and delirious
by now, so they decide to take a nap while
listening to creepy ass theme music.
Crazy-eyed Quentin absolutely loses it and
tries to take Leaven and leave everyone else
behind.
Worth and Kazan pursue Quentin and save her,
but Worth gets his ass kicked and booted into
the next cube by Quentin in his illogical
search to find the bottom for an exit.
To Quentin’s dismay, Worth starts laughing
maniacally, because the cube he was just pushed
into contained none other than Renne’s corroded
corpse.
At first glance it seems they’ve gone full
circle.
But it should be obvious that they haven’t.
They should know they haven’t backtracked
that much, and that currently they are right
next to the edge of the cube, which wasn’t
the case earlier.
It’s more likely that the rooms have been
moving like the inaccurate cartesian coordinates
have been suggesting all along.
I do want to point out that it is extremely
lucky that they managed to stumble back into
the Rennes Room out of 17,576 moving rooms.
To most of our protagonists, all hope seems
lost.
But Worth realizes they haven’t gone full-circle.
He cracks the door where the wrenster got
smoked, and yep, now it’s just open air.
With the moving cubes puzzle piece, Leaven
is graced with another mathematical revelation.
The cartesian coordinates are indicative of
the cubes starting positions.
This solves the exit path problem.
Theoretically and empirically we know that
some cubes have starting positions outside
the main 26x26 cube, like the 14,27,14 cube.
According to Worth and our observations, there
don’t appear to be any cubes that were situated
outside the main cube.
This indicates that the cubes with a 27 starting
location are rare, and possibly only the one
they encountered exists.
Also according to Worth, there is one door
on the shell.
Since this rare or single cube with a 27 starting
coordinate would fit flush with the shell,
it’s likely that it’s a bridge to the
shell where an exit would lie, but only when
it’s in it’s starting position.
Unfortunately, this exit path solution presents
more problems.
How do they locate a cube when all the cubes
are being shuffled around and they only know
their starting positions.
Knowing that you can navigate a map using
permutations of cartesian coordinates, and
since the numbers have been the key to everything
so far, Leaven and Worth figure that the permutations
are encoded in these numbers as well.
Leaven runs through some numbers and ideas
pretty quickly, so let’s break down what
she’s thinking.
She mentions that to find the starting cartesian
coordinates, you add the 3 digit number sequences
together, to find the permutations, you subtract
the numbers from each other.
Then she says that their current room moves
to 0,1,-1 on the x-axis.
2,5,-7 on the y-axis.
And 1,-1,0 on the z-axis.
We can deduce the equation she’s using from
this.
For example, with the room number 242 536
645.
To decode the cartesian coordinate starting
position, you would do (2+4+2),(5+3+6),(6+4+5).
This equals 8,14,15.
Now, the permutation would be decoded by doing
the opposite, sort of.
You would subtract each number from each other
in the 3 digit sequences, like this.
((2-4)+(4-2)+(2-2)),((5-3)+(3-6)+(6-5)),((6-4)+(4-5)+(5-6))
which equals (-2,2,0), (2,-3,1),(2,-1,1).
This seems to work because each set cancels
itself out to 0.
Meaning that a cube’s starting and ending
positions are the same.
To verify her theory, she needs to calculate
the permutations of surrounding cubes not
only determine if they conflict or not, but
also to figure out where they are in the cycle
and if they are on the z or x axis.
How does this all work?
I’ll try to explain.
Leaven asks Worth and Quentin to give her
the room numbers of surrounding rooms as a
reference point.
These are the numbers and thus permutations
of the surrounding cubes:
Worth Room #1: 666,897,466 or 18,24,16 or
(0,0,0) (-1,2,-1) (-2,0,2)
Quentin Room #2: 567,898,545 or 18,25,14 or
(-1,-1,2) (-1,1,0) (1,-1,0)
Worth Room #3: 656,778,462 or 17,22,12 or
(1,-1,0) (0,-1,1) (-2,4,-2)
We aren’t given the room number of their
current room, but we are given the permutations,
which are:
(0,1,-1) (2,5,-7) (1,-1,0)
And we are also told by Leaven that this room,
and in conjunction the Bridge Room, is 2 movements
from it’s starting position.
Before we continue, I want to point out that
the numbers provided here don’t strictly
add up given the permutation decoding scheme.
Either I and a bunch of other people are wrong..
..there’s missing info, or the movie made
mistakes.
It was incredibly frustrating to try to make
sense of it, but i’ll give you my train
of thought and let you decide if I’m right
or missing something.
I did mess up, the y and z axes should be
flipped.
The Z should be the vertical axis...
To reiterate: In order to verify her theory,
she needs to calculate the permutations of
surrounding cubes not only determine if they
conflict or not, but also to figure out where
they are in the cycle and if they are on the
z or x axis.
The reference room data is as follows:
Worth Room #1: 666,897,466 or 18,24,16 or
(0,0,0) (-1,2,-1) (-2,0,2)
Starting Position: 18,24,16
First Position: 18,23,14
Second Position: 18,25,14
Starting Position: 18,24,16
Quentin Room #2: 567,898,545 or 18,25,14 or
(-1,-1,2) (-1,1,0) (1,-1,0)
Starting Position: 18,25,14
First Position: 17,26,15
Second Position: 16,25,14
Starting Position: 18,25,14
Worth Room #3: 656,778,462 or 17,22,12 or
(1,-1,0) (0,-1,1) (-2,4,-2)
Starting Position: 17,22,12
First Position: 18,22,10
Second Position: 17,21,14
Starting Position: 17,22,12
Current Room: X,X,X or 16,18,14 or (0,1,-1)
(2,5,-7) (1,-1,0)
Starting Position: 16,18,14
First Position: 16,20,15
Second Position: 17,25,14
Starting Position: 16,18,14
Bare with me here.
Like I said earlier, the numbers don’t make
sense in some spots.
Worth Room #3 will never be on the same y-axis
as their current room, so this room should
have different numbering.
Likewise, none of these rooms will ever be
near the edge of the cube, but Worth was just
seen next to an open door with nothing but
air outside.
Anyways, to verify her permutation theory,
she would need to ensure that there are no
conflicting permutations, where two cubes
would be in the same location at one time.
This checks out thankfully.
To figure out where in the cycle they are
at, she needs to basically find the coinciding
permutations that line up on the x and y axis.
Worth Room #1 and Quentin Room #2 both line
up on the same y-axis as their current room,
and are also lined up on either side of their
current room on the x-axis when in the second
position.
Leaven even mentions the room number 17,25,14,
though she never told us what that meant,
now we know that she’s referring to the
cartesian coordinates of the second position
of their current room.
She also mentions that the current room makes
2 more moves before returning to its original
position.
Which is a problem because according to our
figures, it should be in 1 move.
There’s a second problem too, the current
room’s permutation and cartesian coordinates
are also incompatible, there’s no way to
produce a compatible room number with both
of these decoded sets.
But theoretically this is how you would know
your current position in the cycle.
Let’s say the movie screwed up and all this
should check out.
They also need to orient themselves correctly,
so they need to know which direction is the
x axis and z axis.
Using our above calculations they would know
that the three rooms with sequential x-axis
numbers would be the x-axis, and perpendicular
to it would be the z-axis.
Now they are properly oriented within the
cube.
Great, the decoding scheme seems to check
out if you ignore a lot of the problems with
it.
Funny how that works.
If you have problems just ignore them and
everything will check out.
With their current location and orientation,
they should be able to find the bridge room,
right?
Yes, but for the wrong reasons.
The numbers continue to break down and give
us more problems.
Here is what we can decode from the bridge
room cartesian coordinates.
Bridge Room: X,999,X or 14,27,14 or (X) (0,0,0)
(X)
Starting Position: 14,27,14
First Position: X,27,X
Second Position: X,27,X
Starting Position: 14,27,14
The only way to express 27 as a room number
sequence is 999, and the permutation for that
would be ((9-9)+(9-9)+(9-9)) which equals
a movement cycle of 0,0,0.
This means the bridge cube wouldn’t move
from its starting position on the y axis,
which means they would have never encountered
it from inside the cube.
If they did somehow stumble into the bridge
room, based on this permutation encoding scheme,
it would be impossible not to notice.
They’d be surrounded by air on 4 sides,
the ceiling on the top, and the cube they
entered from on the bottom.
They don’t really need to know though.
Now that they are oriented on the z and x
axis and have their current location, they
can accurately move to the adjacent cubes
next to 14,27,14’s starting position and
wait for it.
At their assumed current position of 17,25,14,
this puts them 3 cubes away on the x-axis,
and 1 cube away on the y-axis from the cube
that will be adjacent to the bridge cube in
it’s starting position.
But wait, there’s more problems.
They have no idea what the movement timing
and sequence is.
From my calculations based on movie timing,
a cube moves every 4 minutes or so, and the
late-wrenster said that they were regular
intervals each time.
However, this could just be the movements
that they were able to notice from their position
inside the cube.
Cubes could have been moving that they weren’t
able to feel.
We know not all cubes move at the same time,
and likely only a couple cube moves at a time.
The entire time they have been in the cube,
they haven’t been inside a cube that was
moving.
This means that independent cubes, like their
current cube and the fantastical bridge room
will likely be at different stages in their
rotations.
It gets worse.
According to her permutation theory, each
cube could move a minimum of 3 times, and
a maximum of 9 times before returning to the
starting position.
However, these could be executed forwards,
in reverse, one axis at a time, multiple axis
at a time, and any combination thereof.
With all this shitty incongruent math, and
considering they may be 3 cubes across and
1 cube under where they need to be, I'd just
go topside and wait for the bridge cube to
get into position, then break open the side
doors and hop in.
They need to head topside to get to the bridge
anyways, so why stick around doing more math
problems.
They already know where the puck is going,
just stake in that direction.
Instead, they obsess over the slightly faulty
trap detection method.
4 cubes away isn’t a problem, with the immensely
high probability of correct trap detection,
and their current method of no-prime, sniff,
slap, and boot, it shouldn’t be a problem.
Okay.. re-evaluating trap detection theory
still isn’t necessary, but screw it let's
do it.
Leaven says that at first she thought trap
rooms were identified if any 3 digit sequence
in the room number was a prime number, but
now she thinks trapped rooms are identified
based on numbers that are the power of a prime.
What led her to believe that?
This doesn’t even make any sense.
I swear to god, at this point I think she’s
just making shit up to sound relevant.
When pressured by Quentin to figure out the
numbers so they can escape she retorts:
So you can’t calculate the factors in each
set of numbers to assess whether or not a
room is trapped, but somehow you know that
this is the solution for trap detection?
Okay.
The problem is that prime numbers and products
of prime powers are different sets of numbers.
A product of a prime power can’t be prime
itself.
So if traps were only identified by prime
powers their previous trap detection method
wouldn’t have worked so well.
Prime powers are composite numbers.
For example 5x5x5=125.
This is the product of a prime power, but
it also is a composite number.
My guess is that Leaven meant that traps are
detected if the number is prime OR a product
of a prime power.
Come on Leaven, be clear for Christ's sake.
The pain continues as my confusion is reignited
yet again.
When Leaven says she can’t even calculate
the factors of 567, Kazan blurts out the number
2.
Which is odd.
So She asks him again, to which he replies
2, again.
He has a habit of repeating words, so she
then throws him a tee-ball number that she
can verify which has an answer different than
2.
So she asks, how many factors does 30 have,
he says 3.
Worth then gives Kazan the rest of the numbers
to the next room.
Kazan answers that 898 is 2 and 545 is 2.
Leaven gasps, “he’s giving us the factors”.
Except he’s not.
He’s giving you the number of unique prime
factors.
For example: 567 has 10 factors.
1, 3, 7, 9, 21, 27, 63, 81, 189, 567.
The unique prime factors would be 3 and 7.
2 numbers total.
2 is a prime number and doesn’t indicate
if a room is the product of a prime power
either.
I don’t get it.
I probably just suck at math and don’t understand
something though.
Leaven’s not communicating clearly, and
she’s only relying on a savant to compute
things based on the muddy context she provided.
Autistic savant’s like Kazan often have
an extraordinary area of knowledge or ability
in a single capacity, but otherwise have immense
trouble with understanding things like language.
So for him to understand what she’s saying
is unlikely.
Hell, I can’t either.
Leaven says that based on Kazan’s answers,
the next room is safe.
You’re not even going to check his math
at all?
Even if you did, like your prime number theory,
you don’t know if it works with any degree
of confidence.
Hell, there is even less confidence that this
method works versus the previous method, and
now you don’t have a boot to test it.
I’d just continue with the old method that
had a high confidence and success rate.
Technically you could go back and test the
rooms you already know are safe, but since
you didn’t use line markers you probably
forgot which ones were safe.
I guess you could also use Rennes corpse as
a ‘boot’ to test the next rooms.
Or you can just throw Worth in I guess.
They are going in the Quentin #2 room direction.
According to our previous calculations, this
is the right direction if they are heading
towards the bridge room.
They then progress further into the 15,25,14.
When Quentin tries to follow them, Worth shoves
the door up into Quentin’s neck.
There’s that crazy-eyed Quentin.
Worth stalls Quentin while Kazan and Leaven
try to escape into the 14,25,14 room.
They should head upwards now, but instead
move forward another cube.
But i’m sure Leaven magically figured out
some other decoding scheme and knows where
the bridge room is.
Their next move is trapped though, so to throw
Quentin off their tail they stage their own
trap.
That’s clever and all, but super impractical.
You have to make sure that Quentin steps on
top of the door, then when you try to open
the door it will make noise and it has to
come out then slide over.
It just wouldn’t really work.
Movie magic says otherwise and Quentin fell
on his head.
With the amount of blood coming out of his
head, I think they’re safe from him now.
From their 14,25,14 room, they move across
the z and x axis a few times and reach a giant
vertical shaft where cubes should be.
They’ve positioned themselves 1 cube across
from where the bridge cube’s next position
will be.
The bridge cube comes down to their cube,
and they hop in to ride it to the pearly gates.
Interestingly, this cube moved down, then
back up, suggesting that the cubes immediately
moved a full cycle across one axis before
rotating across the other axis.
There was no way of knowing this so finding
the bridge cube again is highly improbable.
Kazan failed to make the jump in time, and
Leavenworth’s cube moved up 1 spot.
Worth graciously comes to Kazan’s rescue
by going left then down.
Which doesn’t make sense either.
While Worth is hauling Kazan’s ass back,
Leaven checks the room number of their current
room.
It’s 14,26,14.
Then she says this room’s next move takes
them under the bridge room.
So this isn’t the bridge room, this was
the room that cycles next to the bridge room.
How are you calculating the timing of all
these rotations anyways.
I’m having a hard freaking time believing
and following this.
More like you should have gone topside as
soon as Worth told you about the cube and
you had discovered the 14,27,14 room.
Once their cube’s movement is complete they
go across it and open the other side’s door
to the bridge cube.
Wouldn’t they be under the bridge cube,
meaning they’d have to go upwards to get
to the bridge?
And once inside the bridge cube, wouldn’t
the exit be on the roof as the bridge cube
can never be near any sides?
I swear to god I must be losing my shit.
Before when Leaven came across the 14,27,14
room it was white, and now it’s red?
What are you all waiting for, freaking go,
these cubes move fast and you’re going to
miss your only chance.
Oh great now he’s sitting down.
Oh here we go again with the Edgar Allan Poe
bs.
The only stupidity I'm seeing here is that
the dumbass that helped build this thing is
now giving up 2 yards from the endzone.
Fine dude cya later.
No.
That’s not possible.
1.
This dude's head was busted open and bleeding
all over from the fall.
2.
With his lack of knowledge of math he’d
have definitely run into trap rooms
3.
Leaven, Worth and Kazan not only moved across
numerous cubes, but also those cubes they
moved into moved far distances 2 times as
well.
This epitomizes the incongruency I've been
struggling to make sense of this whole movie.
Worth doesn’t allow Quentin to go free,
and holds his leg so Quentin gets caught in
between the moving cubes.
Kazan is the only one that makes it out alive,
though we can’t be sure.
The light at the end of the tunnel might be
a train and all.
The movie ends.
Lets recap to see who could have lived or
was destined to die.
This has been a long ass video so let me be
brief.
Alderson couldn’t have survived.
The Rennes couldn’t have survived.
Everyone else shouldn’t have survived, and
only did so because of plot math.
My soul didn’t survive.
Movies that rely on details then screw those
details up are extremely frustrating.
How dare they not accommodate YouTubers that
over analyze their low budget pseudo math
dramas.
I’d say that due to all the failure and
incongruencies, this movie wasn’t beaten.
That’s the first time I've said a movie
can’t be beaten.
Bravo Cube 1997, and fuck you.
I’d rather take my chances in a zombie apocalypse
any day.
I know there are cube sequels but I need to
let these wounds heal by doing a dumb movie
next.
So let me know what dumb movies you want to
see.
Thanks for watching, and remember, be nice
to nerds.